Yeah, I didn't see him very much.
That's Dr. Harrington for the purpose of the machine.
Yeah.
We just didn't hang around the system building or wherever he was.
You know, the only time we went over there was to have our core picture made, our company picture made on the steps.
Was Gib Gilchrist, had he already become?
He had gone.
I think his last year was like 47.
Okay.
Yeah.
Did Melvin Maltz, have you talked to him?
Melvin Maltz?
Yeah.
Did he tell you about when they marched on Gilchrist?
Yes, yes.
Then they fired everybody the next day?
And I want to go talk to Henry Gilchrist to get
any version from his family and so on.
Pinky Downs.
Was Pinky on the campus in those days?
Yeah, he was on the campus.
Please describe P.L.
Downs Jr.
P.L.
was a very thin little guy that just went around.
More people laughed at him, I guess, than did anything because it wasn't our style to
act that way, but anyway, he was a legend, and we all loved him, of course, but it was, when you saw him, you talked to him, and he always had stories to tell you, you know, and we didn't see him too much.
He wasn't in the areas where I was very often.
Did he have an office?
I'm not sure.
I think he did.
I've never known where?
I'm not sure where it was, but
As far as y'all knew, what was his job?
What was his assignment?
He was strictly a self-made PR guy.
I don't think he got paid for it.
I don't think he was, he just did it on his own.
He just took, he just was, made himself known and just did it, you know, just did it on.
It was kind of a strange deal.
It'd be like me today, you know, just all of a sudden
putting on a plaid coat and standing around and gig them and, you know, on the campus and everybody gets to know you, Shane.
Now, at that time, the project houses had become married housing?
Yes.
And then College View.
Uh-huh.
Were there, when you got here, were there still some veterans enrolled?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that's when it really started in 48.
See, they got out in 46 when the war was over.
So 47, 8, and 9 is when the classes really started in 51, 52 they were.
What were those veterans like as students?
They were bad because they all made good grades.
So the curve wasn't as high for us, you know.
But they were here to study and I wish they did to get out because they understood the program.
We were still too young to understand the program at that time and immature or whatever you call it.
But it was good having them around.
Did their wives work in lots of the offices on campus?
Oh, yeah, most all the offices where they worked and helped put them through school because the GI Bill was not that much, so they needed, however, it didn't cost much to live here either.
You know, I think it was $35 a month in those vet housing over there, and that's all the utilities and everything.
Had to buy a little food and a gallon of...
Thunderbird wine every Friday night or Saturday, you know.
No idea.
What was there at Northgate?
At Northgate?
Restaurants.
Mostly restaurants.
Such as?
And bookstores.
Well, just eating places and
I think the camera shop was there, the boot shop was there, cleaners were there, just the usual stores like that.
There wasn't churches, plenty of churches.
Did you and your buddies ever go to the campus theater?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, that was a Saturday night deal because you could walk up there, you know, and so that was good.
They'd have a midnight show every now and then that you could go to and stay out late and
Now, on stay out late, could a student be out late during the week in the Corps?
No.
No, no.
We have the same CQ.
I guess they still have today.
From 7 to 10, you had to be at your desk studying, particularly the freshmen and sophomores.
Juniors had a little bit more privilege, and then seniors didn't have to be there.
But freshmen and sophomores had to be there from 7 to 10 unless you got a pass to go to the library or whatever.
And then at 10 o'clock, they turned the lights out, so you had to have a late lights pass if you were going to stay up and study past 10.
And the first sergeant gave you that or whatever, so they weren't hard to come by.
But anyway, you had to ask permission.
It had to be on your door if you were not there or if you had a late lights pass, so in case one of the TAC officers came by.
Did you have to get a pass to go off campus between, say, 7 and 10?
Between 7 and 10 at night?
Oh, yeah.
By the time you left the dorm between 7 and 10, you had to have a pass.
Let's make believe you just wanted to go to the movie.
Yeah, you had to have a pass.
Well, you'd get a library pass.
And then go to the movie instead?
Yeah, right.
It had to be a study period.
How often did you go downtown, Brian?
We'd go down on Saturdays and maybe Sundays sometime to the movie down there.
It was in an urban.
It was five miles from here to Bryan.
Was the interurban working during your day?
Yeah.
Oh, it was.
Where'd you catch it?
Caught it up at the train station.
I believe that's where it was.
Well, maybe it wasn't up there.
I can't remember now whether it went down College Avenue or whether, I think it followed the regular train tracks down into town.
And we caught it up there and, God, these things are so big.
Do you remember what it cost?
Oh, it was a nickel or so.
Wasn't very much.
Ran about how often?
Probably every hour, two hours, something like that.
It wasn't very frequent.
And when you went to Bryan, you went in uniform.
Oh, yeah.
Went in uniform.
Got in fights with the Allen Academy kids because they were all both uniformed at that time.
How did their uniform look compared to Aggie uniforms?
It was, I don't know, the only way I know it describes a little high schoolish type thing, or it had a blue stripe on it, or it was different.
You could tell the difference.
I think it had blue stripes on it.
Of course, they had different brass than we did.
And it was a...
military style, high school, and junior college?
No.
Well, it went from elementary school through two years of junior college.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, it was a full spectrum of, and they lived on the campus.
There were little guys like this come to town in a uniform, you know, big hat.
Were there any places, special places to eat or soda fountain and so forth, downtown Bryan?
Oh, there were a few drugstores down there, you know.
that we went to on occasion, hamburgers and all.
If you and your buddies wanted to go out for just a good time on a Saturday night, where would it be?
Well, I'll have to say I don't really know, because those people, we didn't have a car in the outfit, so the juniors wouldn't loan you their car, and the freshmen wouldn't, you know, it just wasn't, we had one
classmate in our outfit.
I take that back.
A guy named Stallings from North Texas had a Studebaker coupe, had a board in the back for the back seat, and too many of us couldn't get in there.
So we didn't do that very often, but I don't know.
We were too young to drink, and I'd been running track all the time, so I didn't, you know, so I just
In terms of good times, how much smoking did Aggies do?
Not much.
I can't remember.
If they smoked, what did they smoke?
I can't remember anybody smoking.
You can't?
No.
Did you and your buddies even know the words marijuana or heroin?
Not to my knowledge.
They didn't know it.
And we've heard about LaGrange and the Chicken Ranch now, but was that known at College Station when you were a student?
Yes.
It was?
Oh, yeah.
Did some Aggies supposedly go over there?
Yeah.
As far as I know, the big boys told me about it today.
Let's see, we talked about, oh, important question.
Describe the student body in general.
Where did, in your era, where did Aggies come from, city or the country?
What were their values, their attitudes, their judgments, their feelings?
As far as I can recall,
We had people from everywhere.
I mean, they came from all areas because that was a poor time.
The school was cheap.
It was a land-grant school.
So it was all farmers.
You know, it was what the... Can I say this without heresy?
It was what the school was put here for instead of today's... Excuse me.
You'd strike that out.
But their values were...
all uptown.
We're all very high caliber people.
It was always yes sir, no sir.
It was always yes ma'am and no ma'am.
The mothers came, you know, and it was
We always took care of everybody, but their values were just high.
I have to say this, I think it's why we had a lot of the Jewish community come to this school, because when you came here,
And put on a uniform, no one knew who you were, how much money you had.
They didn't care.
Everything you did in those days were on your marriage as a student.
You were elected to the corporal, you were elected to the first sergeant, to the CO by the student body, by your peers in the company, or...
The Corps commander, I think, went up before his peers would nominate them or something, and then they'd go for interviews to the staff.
But everybody was the same, and all the values were the same.
We didn't say, well, you're Jewish, you know, because when they called Fish Jones to hit the hall, everybody hit the hall.
It didn't make any difference.
whether you had a dollar or a hundred dollars in your pocket, or whether a kid in my outfit, while he was there, inherited 200, 200?
Inherited like 50, 60,000 acres from his grandmother.
or 25,000 acres, some big ranch.
But when they called him to come, he was right there with the rest of us.
You know, so it was great to be here.
It was great to be a part of this place.
And you look at the people
In those days, how much we think of the school, we come back to everything, we give to everything, you know, we just run out of money.
I had a friend of mine on a bus going to a football game one day said, if you're not Republican or Jewish or an Aggie, what do you do with all your money?
Now, so you mentioned Jewish.
Were there some Hispanic?
Very few.
Why, I don't know.
But there were no blacks, of course, which I don't know why either, but they just... State law.
What was it?
That wasn't A&M.
I didn't know that.
Segregated education.
But there were some Hispanics here.
Were there some international students?
Not too many.
Not too many in those days.
What about city and country?
Of course, they were more from the city because there's more of us in the city, but a lot from the country.
I guess in my outfit, most of the track people were probably from the cities.
Probably most of the, in my outfit, and when I went over to B Infantry,
I guess it was 50-50 between country.
They were from Houston, El Paso, but there was some from San Antonio, some from Paris, and some from smaller towns and that.
Anyway, it was about a 50-50 deal, taking agriculture.
engineering or whatever we were taking.
All right.
As far as you and your buddies were concerned, what were thought of as the toughest majors and the least demanding academic majors then?
Engineering was the toughest.
And it was run and play with B&A.
When you couldn't pass anything else, you dropped down and went into College of Business.
What was the college then?
The School of Business it was then.
Because it was all reading classes.
You went to class from about 8 to 12.
That's all the classes you had.
Unless you were taking an accounting course, you'd have an afternoon, two-hour lab or something.
All right.
And you changed your major in your first?
Yeah, from engineering to industrial technology, my second semester.
And that was in engineering?
Yeah, it's in the College of Engineering.
Okay.
And you, who was the dean of engineering then?
Benson.
Who?
Dean Benson, wasn't he?
Was he in the 50s?
I don't think so because I think he follows Calhoun.
Who was that guy?
Who was the guy before Calhoun then?
I can't remember.
Right now.
And you turned to Dr. McGuire for advice.
And what did you think that...
major was preparing you to do?
Well, I ended up wanting to be a safety engineer, which is what it did, which is what I started out as when I got out of school.
Did you go to summer school ever?
Yeah.
Where?
Houston.
Oh, okay.
But not here?
Not here.
I went to summer school here
Well, no, I went to Houston most of the time.
I took one semester in Houston, I think.
In the summer of 1950 in Korea, a war started.
What did you and your buddies think about that when you came to school in the fall of 1950?
It got worse and worse, and then in January of 51, a lot of people didn't finish the semester all across.
Well, I left and went in the Navy.
Oh, you did?
Yeah.
My grades had dropped a little bit, so I thought, well, I better get my time in.
So I left and went in the Navy.
When did you go?
I went in the Navy in 51.
April of 50, I guess.
No, no, no.
The war didn't start until June of 50.
Then I went in in 51.
And you were on active duty how long?
For three years, 11 months and 19 days.
And then I came back in 55 and finished.
How had A&M changed during that time?
It really hadn't changed that much that I could notice.
The only thing is I wasn't in the Corps then.
I was over in Milner and I didn't go back in the Corps, which as hindsight always has, I made a mistake by not going back in the Corps.
So you never had senior boots?
No.
Wasn't the boots.
In fact, I already had two years up here before and then four years in the Navy.
And if I'd have gone back in the Corps, I'd already had almost ten years.
You could be cashing the checks.
Right.
So that was kind of a mistake.
But anyway, it's all passed, so it's okay.
Before you went off to join the Navy, did you and your buddies talk about that war and how it might affect you?
Yeah.
We talked about it some and wondered what we were going to do or if we were going to have to go, if it would be over by then.
Another police action, you know.
And we thought MacArthur would pretty well handle the program.
He did pretty well the first time around.
And so it may not bother us yet.
And then our head yell eater, Job.
A guy named Job.
J-O-B-E?
Uh-huh.
Wasn't over there until the water got hot.
He got blasted.
And there's two stories.
One is they didn't even find his body.
Two weeks after the encounter, he went in.
Or a week after that, after we'd won the place, they went in and couldn't find him.
So we understand he's listed as an MIA because they haven't found him.
But anyway.
All right, now by that time you had been to Silver Taps.
Do you remember your first Silver Taps?
Yeah.
What your feelings were?
I remember all of them.
I'd say all of them, but there's really no feeling like that because in those days when it was all mail, all the lights went out.
And so at 10 o'clock the lights went out.
We all left our dorm quietly and walked to the...
academic building and stood there very reverend until the ceremony was over then we quietly walked back to our dorms and then the lights came on sometime thereafter you know 11 o'clock or so 10 30 11 but it was dead dark in those days of course they can't do that today with the girls you know but and did you ever hear of any kind of prank or stunt or anything else
On a silver taps night?
No, you never heard a word.
I never have either, thank goodness.
Never heard a word.
I mean, everybody really had respect for that.
I mean, they wouldn't talk to each other walking.
Somebody stumbled and fell, it's your fault.
And it happened seldom enough that usually you knew who the person was, didn't you?
Yeah, well, in those days, you knew quite a lot more kids than today.
Mm-hmm.
Because, you know, the average was probably 5,000 or 6,000.
And here, well, you knew all of them in the dorm.
I lived in Milner and knew all those kids in Milner, you know, when I came back.
But you just know them all.
You just get around to meet them.
That's the...
Did you go to Bonfire after you came back?
Uh-huh.
Did you work on Bonfire?
Yes.
I just got myself in as a safety officer as opposed to going out and cutting there.
Now, what does that mean?
What was a safety officer?
Oh, I just went around to stack some and explained to them about...
how they ought to act at the site.
Still on the drill field.
Yeah.
But I didn't.
And they worked about how long on it?
Oh, I don't know.
Maybe.
I don't think they worked as long as they work now.
Oh, no.
It wasn't very long.
What about Mustard?
Did you go to Mustard as a student?
Went to Mustard as a student.
Where?
Where did they have it?
I forgot where we went.
I can't remember where I went.
I think it was sometimes on the steps.
Oh, it was on the steps out at the system building.
Or the system building.
Yeah, that's where we went.
And then when I first got here, they had it two or three times on the MSC steps in 60, 61.
I think we went over at the system building probably.
What did, at that time, what did muster mean to you and your buddies?
What was it?
It didn't really mean much at that time.
I mean, you know, because we weren't really, didn't have a real concept of, that it was about our fallen comrades and all that like it does after we got out of
Korea and all, you know.
When you came back from Navy duty, did it seem different?
Yeah, it seemed a lot different then.
Then you could relate to the, to Corregidor, not as bad, but you could relate to.
And you bought your senior ring and what?
So you're in the class of what?
52.
See, I held my class of 52 when I started because that's my age group, and I met most of my partners in that year.
But you came back and you got your degree.
57.
So when did you buy your ring?
I think I got it in December or August of 57, something like that, December.
Remember what it cost?
$27.50.
And by this time, you and the GI Bill are paying... Yeah, we were getting $110 a month, which paid everything.
Oh, okay.
And the money to spare, I'm telling you.
What kind of car did you have by then?
I had bought a 1950 Buick Special from my father when I was still in the service, and I drove it back to San Diego my last year out there, I guess.
And then when I came back...
I drove it back, of course, and then I kept it while I was up here.
Why did you come back to A&M?
Why didn't you go somewhere else?
Well, turn that off and I'll tell you.
No, and he put me on probation, and it was after the first semester I was off.
Did you make better grades?
Oh, I didn't make under a B average after I came back.
But it was so easy.
I knew what I was here for.
And studying, I'd go into quizzes or finals with a smile on my face and sit down and casually take the test.
And they were so easy, you know.
And I didn't have under, I graduated with a 1.7.
No, with a 1.4, I think, because of some of my grades prior to that.
And today, we'd add a point to that.
Yeah.
Because of the first two years.
But I had great grades when I came back.
You know, I didn't have any problem at all, passing or getting out.
But anyway, it was, it's a different thing.
Like the veterans, when they came back, you know, they were here to study.
They knew what they were doing.
So the curve went to plot.
Now, did you, where did you serve in the Navy?
I was in Carpus for a couple of years, and then the other two years I was on a seaplane tender and an aircraft carrier.
Where?
In the Pacific.
Did y'all go into, well, the Korean War was over by then, I guess.
No.
Oh, were y'all in that area?
Yes.
We were, the seaplane tender I was on was attached to the Atomic Energy Commission.
So we were over, and we were talking bikini in 53, with the big bombs, with the big deals, the H-bomb.
So we were sitting just off the coast and all that.
We took the scientists and the big stuff.
heavy stuff with us on our ship.
Then I spent my last six months on a carrier because Curtis was going back someplace.
I don't know where it was going.
So I got transferred off of that onto a carrier.
Why is an Aggie ring special?
Well, I think it's special because it's mine.
Because I earned it.
Got my name in it.
I think the real reason it's special is because you can't get it but one place.
And that's right here.
And you have to have X grades, X hours.
You have to have what it takes to get it.
And you can't buy it in a jewelry store.
You can't buy it any place else but right here.
And I think that's why it's so special.
Plus, it's recognizable by everybody in the country.
So anywhere you are in an elevator, anywhere they know where you went to school.
Do you have any good Aggie ring stories?
Where somebody recognized it on the other side of the world, or you lost it and somebody returned it?
No, I don't have that.
I was trying to think of somebody.
Of course, I've been a lot of places where I can't think of just where they are, but it's amazing where people turn up.
I just can't think offhand.
The best one that Ray Bowen, one of the best ones Ray Bowen told me, he had been, he was an MIT graduate student, I mean Caltech graduate student.
going with two German buddies from Heidelberg to Venice on the train.
And here's a lady, somewhat older than he, reading the paper across from him, and she puts the paper down and says, is that an Aggie ring?
Well, yes, ma'am.
You go to Texas A&M?
Yes, ma'am.
How did you recognize it?
She said, well, my husband went to A&M.
I don't know whether you've met him or not.
I'm Mrs. H.B.
Zachary.
Oh, really?
And he told her, yes, he'd heard of her husband.
All right, so did you, the year you graduated, did you even go see Final Review?
Did you walk out there?
I think I did.
Yeah, I walked out there.
I mean, the Corps is still a big time.
We're giving a Corps scholarship right now, a Silverall Scholarship.
And our class is going to end up giving our 50th reunion gift is probably going to be to the Corps.
So everybody and I, we're just still in that group.
Oh.
You know, it's... Commencement was held where?
At Cebiza?
I mean, at Guyon?
Yeah, it was.
Okay.
Yeah.
What were your feelings as you were about to graduate?
They were pretty good.
Knowing we were going to get out of school and get back to work.
Did the family come up?
Yes.
My mother came up, stayed in La Salle Hotel.
That's what she did.
My daddy was dead by then.
He died in August.
before that January graduation.
But anyway, my mother came up and stayed in the LaSalle Hotel.
And so that was good.
And was the speaker a memorable person?
I don't remember.
Most of us don't remember.
No, I don't.
And was every name called, every hand shaken?
That was done.
Is that important?
Oh, yeah.
I think it is.
I do, too.
I think everybody ought to know.
And I think it's the time you spend here and the work you do, I think it's important for the president to shake your hand.
How well did you feel A&M had prepared you for the future?
Well, I thought very well, you know.
Looking back now on all of your professional career since then, what did you learn at Texas A&M?
That's the most important question of the day.
What did you learn at Texas A&M?
Well, you learn how to research, study problems.
You learn how to work.
You learn how to take a situation and organize it and get to the end to where you can have an answer to the problem.
And you learn how to get along with people.
You learn how to meet people.
You learn...
which is really an asset.
You learn how to laugh at yourself, which is another real asset that a lot of people don't understand because your paddnas up here will rag you about this or that, so you have to laugh at yourself because you can't fight the world.
So it's...
and you learn how to give and take with people, because you have to up here, whether you're in the Corps or not.